Date: Tue, 07 Dec 1999 05:25:53 -0400
From: Locnar@IgLou.com (Governor Rocknar)
Newsgroups: rec.games.roguelike.nethack
Subject: Re: progress!
Message-ID: <Locnar-0712990525530001@lex-ts1-36.iglou.com>
References: <82ft46$6uj$1@troy.psych.nwu.edu>
Organization: The Church of the SubGenius
NNTP-Posting-Host: lex-ts1-36.iglou.com
X-Original-NNTP-Posting-Host: lex-ts1-36.iglou.com
X-Trace: 7 Dec 1999 05:23:51 -0500, lex-ts1-36.iglou.com
Lines: 110
X-Original-NNTP-Posting-Host: news-incoming.iglou.com
Path: rQdQ!rQ66!remarQ73!remarQ.com!supernews.com!news.gv.tsc.tdk.com!newsfeed.berkeley.edu!btnet-peer!btnet!tank.news.pipex.net!pipex!uunet!zur.uu.net!ffx.uu.net!news.iglou.com!lex-ts1-36.iglou.com!user
Xref: rQdQ rec.games.roguelike.nethack:86039

In article <82ft46$6uj$1@troy.psych.nwu.edu>, tew@nwu.edu wrote:

> I'm quite pleased with myself for getting further in NetHack than I've ever
> gotten.  I've managed to complete the quest with my Wizard, and I'm now up
> to 15th level.  However, I'm having some trouble.
> 
> - I had a bag of holding that disappeared, with a lot of stuff in it.  I
> think there was some sort of "flash" when it happened.  What did I do wrong?
> - I've got to face the medusa level, but I'm afraid of the eels, and I don't
> have a ring of levitation or an oilskin cloak.  Polypiling hasn't helped.
> - I've used up all the wishes on my wand, resulting in a GDSM, a new bag of
> holding, speed boots, and gauntlets of power.  I do have an uncursed scroll
> of charging, though.
> - Potions are really scarce.  I can't seem to find any anywhere, as I'd like
> to make water out of them.  Also, there aren't many fountains left in the
> dungeon.  So much for renewable resources.
> 
> Anyone with advice?
> 
> Also, I think a cool new feature for Nethack would be the possibility of
> striking water or oil by digging.  There's no reason not to be able to
> create new fountains of water or oil, right?  Also, you should be able to
> save your empty potion bottles, or there should be a tool like a tinning
> kit, except for water.
> 
> tew
> 

He's got a GOOD point there! Add to that also a ( for a divining rod,
which you must wield two-handed, as it searches out for buried water or
oil.

And something like a tinning kit for water would be a bottling kit. You
could apply the bottling kit over a corpse to save some of the blood of
that creaturee, depending on the color monster, it creates that color
potion. If you apply a bottling kit over a fountain or in a pool of water,
you create potions of (un)holy water, depending of course on the blessing
or curse on the bottling kit.

(what happens when H. P. Lovecraft meets "The Beverly Hillbillies"?)

Come and listen to a story about a Mi-Go named Fred.
A poor mountain miner, barely kept his fungi fed.
Then one day, he was scooping out a brain.
Along came an ooze that shambled out the drain.

Shoggoth, that is. Creeping Death! Elder Thing Tea!

Well the next thing you know, poor Fred got swallowed whole.
The other Mi-Go turned around and said, "They got Fred's soul!"
They all pulled out their shiny guns and aimed it at the slime.
But the Shoggoth ate the Mi-Go up in record breaking time.

*banjo solo*

Mi-Go,  (F, fungi) - The Fungi from Yuggoth (not the Fun Guy from Yuggoth,
that's Nyarlathotep! ;), HD 12, can attack with weapons, multiple hit and
claw attacks along with bite attack, starts with either a wand of sleep,
magic missile, teleportation, digging, cancellation, lightning or death.
Can use a tinning kit to preserve a living brain inside a canister.

Shoggoth, (b, gelatinous cube) - HD 36, either in a massive trample attack
or by engulfing their victims. Can eat anything and everything, animal,
vegetable, mineral, metal, cloth. Hitting a Shoggoth has a chance of
dividing the creature into two, duplicating it.

Nyarlathotep, (&, major demon form / @, human form) - HD (Special). Starts
peaceful (at first). The God of 1,000 forms, only his human form, that of
an ebony skinned human does not cause sanity loss to see. Can gaze to
confuse. Can attack a target's INT, like a mind flayer. Can curse target's
items. Can make a target deathly ill. Carries a cursed ebony horn named
"The Royal Pant" (horn summons demons, chance of summoning Nyarlathotep
again, chance of summoning even NASTIER demons BESIDES Nyarlthotep, i. e.
C'thulhu, Hastur, Azathoth, etc.

C'thulhu, (&, major demon) - HD 100. The Sleeping God, immortal C'thulhu
awaits in hidden R'yleh for the day when the stars are right. Can engulf
target victims. Can grasp and immobilize with tentacles. After C'thulhu is
destroyed by the player, his massive demon body is dispelled and turns
into several clouds of green mist. (v, fog clouds). The green mist fog
clouds cannot be harmed by any means and with time, the green mist will
re-form back into C'thulhu, once again at full strength and deadliness.

Hastur, (&, major demon) - HD (Special), He who is not to be named. The
God who lives in the Lake of Hali on the planet Aldebaran. His arrival
brings death to anything and anyone the God touches. Can make a target
deathly ill. Can use the touch of death. Upon arrival, Hastur is
accompanied by his servants, the Byahkee, (&, minor demons). Carries a
yellow spellbook named "The King In Yellow", spellbook summons Hastur
again, or summons more Byahkee. Spellbook creates "The Unnameable
Promise", where Hastur spares you to make you into a new servant of him.
Target gets 3 extra spellpoints every few hundred moves, but target can go
no higher than Hastur's SP's. Eventually, Hastur will come to collect on
your "unspeakeable promise", and you'll die, becoming a master lich and
making a bones file.

-- 
>               'Blue, uncertain, stumbling buzz'
>         Ted Whalen - tew@introvert.net - tew@nwu.edu

"The world is indeed comic, but the joke is on mankind."
   - H. P. Lovecraft

-- 
Gov. Rocknar

Randolph S. Vance
Locnar@Iglou.com (Macintosh Eudora Mail)

QUOTE - "I'll watch some TV, it'll help me to RELAX!" - Ren Hoek
