Read Your Fortune
  For 50 zorkmids, the gypsy will draw a random card.  If your
  card is a suited card, you get a special fortune.  Trump cards
  each have specific effects, good or bad.

  There is no skill involved with this service; however, the
  most useful effects have an extra cost that can be only paid
  by credit.  For this reason, you may want to play the other
  games first to win enough credit for a good outcome.


Three-Card Monte
  "Let me show you the easiest game to win.  I've got these three
  cards: the ace of swords, two of swords, and three of swords.
  Watch me shuffle them in front of you.  Are you looking carefully?
  Good.  Now can you tell me which one is the ace?  That's right!
  Wasn't that easy?  Would you like to win some credit?  Just
  place a bet, and if you can pick the ace again, I'll pay your
  bet."

  Actually, it doesn't matter how carefully you watch the gypsy --
  by using slight of hand, she can control whether you win or lose.
  Your chances of winning may increase or decrease as you continue
  to play the game, depending upon whether the gypsy thinks you are
  "hooked" on the game.


Ninety-Nine
  After placing a bet, you and the gypsy are each dealt three cards.
  You alternate turns with the gypsy in which you must play one card
  from your hand, adjust a total depending on the card you played,
  and then draw a new card.  The object of the game is to force your
  opponent to play a card that makes the total less than zero or more
  than niney-nine.  The effects of the cards upon the total are as
  follows:
    Ace           Adds 1 to the total.
    2 through 10  Adds the card's value to the total.
    Jack, Queen   Subtracts 10 from the total.
    King          Raises the total to 99.  Always safe to play.
    Fool          Raises the total to 100.  Always loses.
    Other trumps  No change to the total.  Always safe to play.
  You are the first to play.  If there are no more cards left to draw
  from, you win.


Yendorian Tarocchi
  This game is still under construction, and will be released in
  a future version.

  Tarot cards originated for the purpose of playing Tarocchi, an
  Italian trick-based card game.  (Their use in fortunetelling
  and the occult began much later.)  Tarocchi has been adapted
  and renamed by other cultures: Tarot (France), Tarok (Danish),
  Troccas (Switzerland), and so on.


Pawn Gems
  You can sell valuable gems to gypsies for credit.


About the Cards
Our deck of playing cards is derived from several different European
card systems.  The Italian card system is the oldest, believed to be
imported from India, Persia, or Arabia circa 1370.  (Note that although
playing cards were invented in China, scholarly evidence indicates
that they had no direct influence on European cards.  Also, cards did
not appear in Europe until long after Marco Polo or the Crusades, so
it is unlikely that they were introduced by these travellers.)  Tarot
cards were invented during the 15th century for the purpose of playing
trick-taking card games.  They were not associated with Gypsies or the
occult until the 18th century.  Finally, there is the French card system,
which has been widely adopted by the English-speaking world.

The deck can be divided into two parts.  There are 52 "suited" cards
that are very similar to the familiar French system (4 suits with 13 ranks);
in a Tarot deck, these are called the "minor arcana".  The other part
of the deck are the "trump" cards, which are called the "major arcana" in
a Tarot deck.

Our suits are named "swords", "wands", "shields", and "rings".  These
are assigned by matching the Tarot suits to their closest equivalent
NetHack object.  Interestingly, there are two "offensive" suits (swords,
wands), two "defensive" suits (shields, rings), two "ordinary" suits
(swords, shields), and two "magical" suits (wands, rings).


